# Analysis of Houston open street map (OSM) data

OpenStreetMap (OSM) is a collaborative project to create a free editable map of the world. The creation and growth of OSM has been motivated by restrictions on use or availability of map information across much of the world, and the advent of inexpensive portable satellite navigation devices (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenStreetMap). As OpenStreetMap is a free editable map of the world created by volunteers, there is a long debate on the quality and validity of the data provided by OpenStreetMap. Here I, analyzed Houston OpenStreetMap (OSM) data using data munging techniques to assess the quality of the data for validity, accuracy, completeness, consistency and uniformity. After this investigation of the data set, I found that the open street map data for greater Houston area is incomplete. For example, Some amenities (such as Walgreens pharmacy) which I personally know it does exist in Bellaire City, is not in the data. This might be due to incomplete representation in the data (i.e, the name Walgreens pharmacy may exist but its adress and city might not exist in the data). Another problem I found was strong non uniformity of the data. For example some amenities have full adresses including city, zip code even phone number and others have only names. This might be partly due to the data imported from the GNIS data base which is basically a database of names and also the fact that the open street map data is input of many contributers from GPS data.
